They're rolling.
Let's hope I can pick this up around the back race.
I'm curious, you're a senior.
You have Christine.
Christine, you said you're from Texas, is that right?
Where in Texas?
San Enzo.
Which way did you apply to St.
John?
I had been to another college in Virginia for a few years off and on, and I really didn't take to the kind of education.
I just didn't learn well in that kind of a setting.
Was it liberalized?
I was reading literature mainly, but I didn't know.
Yeah, the focus was completely different.
You know, you had to declare a major.
And the sort of teaching was, it was not, you know, it was traditional.
You go to class, you listen to a lecture, you take notes, and then you take a test.
And I didn't learn well in that way.
And so I quit school.
I mean, I decided I didn't need a degree for anything.
I wasn't going for that.
It was more about education.
So I stopped going to school, and I just decided I would read for the rest of my life.
So when I ended up moving to Annapolis, and I heard about St.
John's, it sounded to me like they were doing just what I had planned to do, and that's why I hide.
I didn't want to stop educating myself.
I knew that I would never stop doing that, but I didn't see any need to get a degree.
because that wasn't the point.
And so, learning was the sort of point.
That's why I thought this would be the place to do it.
And it turned out, you know.
When you're thinking about reading for the rest of your life, you know, I think about my books.
Instead of an academic book, that comes out.
I didn't know.
I really didn't know.
At this point, I've decided I want to go to medical school.
And I decided that right before I came back to St.
John's.
I knew I wanted to go back to school somewhere.
So I didn't have a point before.
I just thought, and really, literally, I mean, the book,
The book took me where I wanted to go.
I started reading.
I read War and Peace.
I read War and Peace as one of the first literature books that I ever read.
I mean, it sort of changed my life.
Like, I... Well, how is it that Tolstoy helped you decide that you want to go to marriage?
Well, I'll just tell you.
I mean, I... It was kind of personal, but at the end of the book, I sort of...
I remember, not the epilogue, you know, the end of a novel.
I remember I just sort of burst into tears because it was over, because it had been such a big part of my life up until then.
I mean, all I'd wanted to do was read, and I was working at the time, and, you know, I would work, and I would think, oh, I wonder what's going to happen next time I pick up the book.
So when it was over, I really, like, it's just sort of, that book, you know,
I just wanted to read everything I could find by him.
It was like I met a new friend and then I went and found everything I could find by Tolstoy and read it.
To me, that's very connected to what I want to do.
connecting with people.
I felt like the characters in the novel were so real that I made friends with them.
I don't know how to really connect it, but I started reading Grey's Anatomy because I wanted to learn about anatomy.
That was because of a different book that I read.
Which book was that?
It was at the Spider House School.
Yeah, you know, that story about the boy who learned medicine through Grey's Anatomy and apprenticeship.
And so that sort of, I mean, that story inspired me to... If you don't mind me asking, Kristen, how old are you?
I'm 29.
Yeah, I was 26 when I came back, when I started St.
Johnson.
I'll be 30 very shortly after I guys came.
I've been accepted to one medical school.
It's a foreign medical school.
I'm not sure I'll go there.
Which is it?
It's in Cambridge, England.
It's not a Cambridge college.
It's actually a Ugandan medical school that's set up in Cambridge.
Yeah, it's an exchange.
The idea is to get a medical school.
So I don't know that I'll go there, but right now I'm looking into doing close back work.
doing post-bacc pre-med, because we don't get the technical sciences here, so I have to do a year of post-bacc pre-medical preparation before I can take the MCAT and then go... You haven't applied any American medical school.
Not yet.
I have to take the MCAT.
You don't know how they respond to this kind of... Well, yeah, I mean, I can't really... I haven't taken the MCAT yet, and I mean, what will...
to prove whether or not this kind of education is useful or not is how I do on the test.
If my scores show that I've learned something here, then I'm sure that this relationship will just be a plus.
But I don't know that yet.
And I do have to take organic chemistry and biology.
I want to say your name on this guy.
I know that there's someone who graduated a couple of years ago who's now at Columbia Medical School.
I think our program is accepted, and I think a lot of medical schools are looking for local arts graduates.
There is the ethical side of medicine that a lot of people
I met a graduate who was in his third year of medical school there, and then there's an MD, PhD candidate who just came and gave a lecture here and graduated in 1991.
He's at Georgetown.
So lots of students go on there.
And you said when we were standing in the line that you took a year off, is that right?
I didn't take a year off.
I took all of my years off before I came.
And I had plenty.
And what was the school in Virginia that it looked like?
George Mason University.
And what were you studying there?
I was reading, I mean, I had declared the major of English.
And I think I changed it at one point to philosophy.
So this has been great for you?
This is what you wanted?
Yeah, I mean, I...
I totally believe in the way we do things here.
I mean, I've learned how to learn, and I've learned how I learn better.
Yeah, I mean, I've found everything I needed to sort of go on to the next step.
I don't know that I would have felt myself capable of going on to learn the really hard things that I have to learn for medical school if I hadn't had this kind of exposure to
a really difficult new book every week that I've had to take on.
It makes one brave to do that.
Have these books inspired you to read other books?
Were there any books?
That's the idea, right?
It's not just 120 books over four years.
Oh, of course.
There are conversations between the books and between people that have a desire to read other books.
There's a lot of that.
I'm sorry, that's good.
So you're a junior, you took a year off, you said, when was that?
And what did you do for that?
Was it in your mind a continuation of your studies?
I read them before I came here.
That's part of the reason I started reading.
I realized there were so many references that I didn't understand, and I felt like I needed stronger background.
I needed to understand that he was making a reference to Rousseau.
I needed to have read Rousseau.
I needed to make love for the Bible.
I read part of the Bible.
It happens if I had never read the Bible like we do at the same time.
you're from philadelphia so how did you hear about this this school um well for christine it was serendipitous it happened to move you on the other hand i just want to make sure we're doing fine we are and i was working there as a busboy and there was a
I was looking for something that could help me understand Dostoevsky specifically, but more modern books in general.
Do you have majors here?
Describe to me, anyway.
It's a specific course of study that everyone takes, right?
No majors?
Right.
There are no majors.
We do things roughly chronologically.
We start out with Homer and go on to read Plato and Aristotle.
And then in our freshman year we have a laboratory and we start with Aristotle.
Then we read Harvey and study biology, physics, and chemistry.
We study Euclid.
It's sort of like a textbook for ancient Greek.
It's not ancient Greek.
It's really our only textbook is the ancient Greek manual.
That helps us with translating things.
But we do a lot of translating right away so that... Translating?
Mm-hmm.
So that... Where do you learn to do it?
We do learn through textbooks.
You know, we learn the alphabet, and then we learn to grab our... through this one textbook.
But it's just, I mean, the same thing applies that the books are teaching us.
We're learning from the language.
When you describe the program, I mean, it says,
It's a four-year program, history of Western intellectual thought.
So you've got, if you were to think about it in other schools, you'd have like a double major of philosophy and history of mathematics and science, and a minor
in comparative literature, and that takes into account the languages we study, and music.
The idea being that nowadays
Academia is so specific that everyone is trained to do a certain, I mean, they're very apt and, I don't know, technically excellent at whatever field that they're doing, but it's extremely narrow.
In other words, at the time of Leonardo da Vinci and Goethe, there was an idea that you could, it's not master every fact that exists, have a general knowledge of every type of learning and art.
that were known to man.
Now that idea is totally abandoned by most people, and we're still preserving it to some degree.
In other words, although we're not studying every discipline, obviously, we're not studying sociology, you know, psychology, anthropology, we're laying a foundation for which to understand the discipline you choose to go into.
If you do choose to go into psychology, you understand the history of the traditions that Freud and Jung and Adler were working with.
Same with sociology.
You understand where Durkheim came from when he said he thinks, right?
And that's going to be true in any field you go to.
And Sean, you said you're from California?
Uh-huh.
And how about yourself?
And how did Durkheim think?
Where in California, by the way?
I was in the San Francisco area, Marin County.
You know, I was late to college, catalogs and books.
We were looking for books.
What were you looking at?
I was just looking at college brochures.
I'm interested in the chronological approach.
That's to me the best thing about it.
Now I realize other things that are a bit pages about St.
John's.
I mean the approach to learning, the kinds of dialogue that we foster, things like this.
You couldn't get that from the guidebooks.
In the guidebooks you could get the idea that
You were studying things chronologically.
I liked the idea of, as I was saying, having a foundation, not just going into... I mean, if I'm going to use calculus,
to build a bridge or something like that.
I want to be able to not just ask how to do that, but why I'm doing it and how this fits in the greater context of things.
What are your career plans?
Well, I don't see any reason to leave the ivory tower.
I don't see any reason to leave the ivory tower.
I want to go probably into college teaching, probably humanities, although my current plan is to try and go to England and study literature.
But I'm interested in all the... I'd like to teach courses which incorporate the different types of humanities.
Like, you might have some background in art and music,
And I'd like to do something that would involve, you know, philosophy, history, literature, art, music, if such a thing is possible to find.
So you say, I see no reason to leave the ivory tower.
The assumption is that we are in the ivory tower.
Fair assumption?
The ivory is of them all, I would say.
It just, I mean, nothing is unique, but...
Do you feel that you've missed anything in this panel?
The one thing I think that's lacking from the program is that we don't get historical context.
We don't study history here.
I really wish we had some way to send a perspective to say
But we were just special Rousseau, and we didn't discuss the French Revolution at all.
We don't really talk about that at all.
We're about to read the Declaration of Independence, and we don't have any sort of context there either.
I think that that's really important.
The history of ideas is important, but the true of events is also important.
So are you expecting to do that independently then?
Well, we're not expected to do it, but it's not part of the curriculum.
I guess the counter-argument to that is that, and I think the reason we probably do it in that way, is that the books are meant to speak to themselves.
I mean, the things are important, the events that surround the ideas, but I think that
the books are supposed to stand alone, and the ideas are supposed to stand alone.
We don't bring the historical context in because... I think the idea is something like, if the idea is great, then it doesn't need anything to enhance it.
rise above the circumstances of time and human events that have surrounded it.
And it will, I guess, reveal it's possible, separate from it.
How about in terms of college experience being, I mean, I look around, I don't think I would conclude that this student body is a microcosm of
in the world of America.
You wouldn't conclude that?
Maybe I'm wrong.
I don't see much diversity.
They're mostly white people.
Is that what you're saying?
I don't know.
Yeah, I think that's generally true, and it's a really interesting question.
A fair question.
Sure.
I think that has to do with, I mean, who's on the rating list?
Dead white men?
Really, that community.
How do you respond as a woman to that?
I mean, I ask the questions, the questions that come up for me when I read the book.
I ask them, and I ask them in class.
I guess the thing about this campus that I've noticed is that this school, both campuses,
I've never met a group of people where the individuals were so distinctly individual.
Each person has a mind of their own and they're different.
I look around and I see really interesting people as individuals and I know that their thoughts are different from mine in every way.
We'll read the same book and I'll come to class and they'll say things that I never would have thought of.
And they're really distinct in that way from each other.
And I think that's a great thing.
I mean, I think in that way, although we appear homogenous externally, I think we're more... Well, I mean, I think that's... I guess I'm just comparing the mind to the external impairment.
And my experience at another college was that
People didn't question or think independently of each other in the ways that students do care.
You said earlier that before you...
came here, you decided that what I wanted to do was read for the rest of my life.
I'm clear to conclude that books have always mattered to you?
Yes, definitely they've always mattered to me, but they started mattering to me more when I read War and Peace.
That was a really significant experience.
That was really the defining experience.
What brought you to War and Peace?
That's a big book.
I found it on sale at a second-hand store.
I found it at the point where I was exasperated with the public education system and trying to put myself into it.
Sean, do books always matter to you?
Well, a friend of mine from the Santa Fe campus once said to me, I don't think there's ever been a point in my life, you know, since I can remember, in other words, after I learned to read, in which I wasn't reading some book.
There was no period of my life in which there wasn't a book in my life somewhere.
I think I can probably say that's true of me and myself, too.
You know?
Do you read for questions?
Well,
How is all your reading books like that?
Any reading data you would rather not have to do?
125 books fascinating.
Overwhelmingly warping.
I don't know if I could read Copernicus.
I mean, to me, has been described as the greatest book I've ever read.
I mean, you have to take reading, at least in my own case,
is only part of the equation.
In other words, reading is basically taking in other people's ideas, other people's experiences of life.
It's like an experience that you wouldn't be getting through a book, but just through living.
In other words, it's a different type of experience, but it's still taking in experience.
i.e.
painting, poetry, even perhaps critical essays, those are borderline, involve a totally different kind of experience of life.
And so for me, I mean, letter writing, poetry, painting, these kind of things should complement reading because that way you get both
appreciation and creation, which are really integral.
So I would say that reading wouldn't be enough.
You need to take what you do and either express it in your profession, or I would say preferably do some sort of art.
Is this discussed with you when you come here?
Is this an understanding of comprehension that you develop?
Is there an orientation here where
You are told this is what the school is and this is what it isn't.
No, there's no reason.
I think it's just how many of them come here, if we know what we're getting into.
And in order to get accepted as a school, we have to write a series of messages.
I think it's five to ten pages.
So we really have to demonstrate that we know what the program is all about.
We're willing and able to take responsibility for our own education.
We're responsible for ourselves.
The level of accountability is a lot higher because we read the books, we go to class prepared or unprepared.
We don't take tests, so it's really up to us to determine how much we get out of it.
So basically any kid who's admitted here is going to graduate if he or she can stay in the course.
I was in a class this morning, 14 kids can really
I would say of the 14, 6 really participated, 10 participated to a degree according to the same word once.
springtime and the weather is nice and see what happens you're sitting in a senior class too i'm practicing that into the equation what class is it i'm curious um there's a 10-21 literature uh there's a robert we did a robert flash call over the whole um scooter
you know, we're all responsible for our own education.
I think that that there are tutors is very important.
I wouldn't be able to go look on a desert island and read the ones that find books on my own.
I think that tutors really help us with asking the right questions.
And I think by junior and senior years, I think we get a better idea of what sort of questions are appropriate and what sort of questions are important.
Would you agree that this kind of educational philosophy is not for everyone?
I don't know.
I don't really know what does it mean to say it's right for everyone.
Do I think that this is the type of education that a person should have to be an educated person?
Yes.
But do I think that it's right for everyone?
I'm not sure what that question would mean.
Does it take into account everyone's learning style?
Does it study all the possible subject matters?
Obviously not.
However, if someone could say that they're an educated person without a history of mathematics or a history of philosophy,
I would say probably not.
How do you weigh in, anyone, can I just say your name when you start?
How do you weigh in with this canon debate, this cultural debate?
For instance, you hear in some quarters that for literature to be relevant to our...
to our contemporary life and situation that people don't want to read.
You used the phrase dead white European males.
Does a book have to be relevant, not only the importance of being read?
This is Sean.
Go ahead.
In a certain sense, all the books that we're reading are totally relevant to the current situation.
You have to see how that is the case.
In other words, the issues that Homer is addressing in the Odyssey, what does it mean?
to go out and search for something in life and how do you find it and what is it what are the questions of love and questions of you know honesty and discovery all these questions are questions everyone's going to ask themselves in one format or another um in this particularly my sophomore year i had a teacher his name was mr vancatech and christine had him also he was able to take the poetry
and tell stories about his own life.
For example, when he was in China, he would relate medieval English poetry to his recent experience in China in such a way that everyone is just blown away and touched by it.
So I firmly believe that all the things we're reading are relevant, but I don't side on the people who think this is the only education that someone should have and they should stop with these 100 great books and that other things aren't worth reading.
I think there are plenty of other things that are worth reading.
All I would contend is that, just from my own view, it makes more sense to do things chronologically.
In other words, to start with the Greeks and then move up.
That's not that I think that more modern things shouldn't be tackled.
It shouldn't be stopped with the great books and just keep studying them deeper and deeper.
In my view, I think you should expand and do Eastern thought and do 20th century different thoughts after you've done this.
I did look to your Helen Vendler for this book.
She's a great critic of poetry.
Shakespeare.
And I asked him that question.
He said, the word divine is its own excuse for relevance.
You don't have to make a case of relevance for Shakespeare.
And that's the short answer.
So I'm curious to see how he works.
Could you imagine getting an undergraduate degree without him studying or reading Shakespeare?
Could you imagine that?
Could you imagine doing that?
Could you imagine being an English major at a all-time Amorist, at Princeton, at Brown, where it's possible to get a degree in English and not ever having been required to read Shakespeare?
How is it possible to have a degree in English literature and not having, and I do believe Amorist didn't get graduated a summa,
That's a great pity, of course, but whether, I don't know, the issues... I don't know, I mean, maybe one of the two would speak or not, because I'm not going to make any statements about the canon as an off, in other words, whether someone, if they've read X, Y, or Z, ought to be allowed to do X, Y, or Z, but I will say that
I cannot imagine someone never studying Shakespeare because Shakespeare is so incredibly beautiful and moving and profound.
I think the idea is the same.
It doesn't quite make sense.
It seems to be foundational to any kind of understanding of language.
Personally, I haven't experienced any other writer who has even touched the use of language that he has done.
Yeah, I think it's really foundational to any other.
Who do you read for pleasure?
Do you read?
I read lots of different people for pleasure.
Right now, I tend toward more modern people just because of what I'm reading for school.
But I read Shakespeare's Honest for pleasure.
I've been reading Jeanette Winterson.
I can't really handle junk.
I don't do junk very well.
I mean, I guess this school has probably had... No, I have to say that before I ever came here, I couldn't deal with junk.
I mean, I remember reading... I hate to sort of... Well, I don't want to name any names, but I read a couple of... Like a John Christian novel.
And I felt sick because I'd read a couple of Dickens.
You know, and I felt like...
The difference in the quality between them was astounding.
Superfluous, truly superficial and heartless.
That's just before I ever came to St.
John's.
Now I read differently than I did before.
I don't have the patience or the taste for John's really.
There's something else that St.
John's Ben said.
St.
John's forces you to read certain things.
You're supposed to think that you wouldn't approach on your own.
I wasn't ever a student of poetry before I read Shakespeare, and then when I was a career, I mean, outside of school, I think there was a lot of money to consider that.
And I would have never approached that on my hands had I not been exposed to it.
There are no elections and everything is required.
Except for our junior junior year.
Preceptorial.
So all three of us are in the same preceptorial.
Did you call it again?
Preceptorial.
On a particular subject, depending on what is offered that year, we were all in a precept on the brothers' grandma.
We read it through twice.
I think that's a great way to push.
There are other precepts.
There are pre-sutorials on different levels.
There was a Wittgenstein pre-sutorial, there was a Faraday, there were different precepts.
How do you know how you're doing?
You don't get grades?
We call this classes, by the way, the class I was in this morning.
He didn't fall on anyone.
You haven't contributed to this for an hour.
If you didn't say that, did that ever happen?
Well, we have Don Rags.
There's something called Don Rags.
It's when our guns drag on it.
But they call it downracks because they sit on their rear.
They don their rear.
Right.
So they become formal.
They don't actually sit on them, but the point is that, yeah, it's a formal evaluation.
And they're all your tutors and they sit there and they speak to you.
They speak about you in the third person as if you're not there, but you're sitting there.
What kind of things do they say?
They say...
Ms.
Love was very prepared.
She listened well.
She was thoughtful.
Did they ever say, Ms.
Love was sleeping daily?
And then it started working on her finger.
There was one kid up there working on his fingernails the whole class.
I said, this guy's not going to say anything.
And guess what?
At one point, 45 minutes into the class, he came forward.
He contributed.
It happens, I was an English major, and I kind of got into this.
And he said something really good.
And it was the same.
Well, I mean, I don't know.
It's the same difficulty question you have.
class where there's not a strict multiple choice test.
I mean, it's easier, I guess, to evaluate essays than it would be to evaluate classroom participation, but it's still a call of the teacher, the professor, the tutor, as to what counts as excellence and what doesn't.
But I guess a more important question is that
In high school, it was all measured by tests.
You stayed up all night and studied as hard as you could, and you got this grade on this test, and you could get into Harvard or whatever.
But there wasn't an idea that learning also involved how you were toward other people.
whether you listen to them well, whether you were compassionate to what they were saying, whether you were helpful, you know, in other words, challenge their ideas in ways that were helpful to them, not in ways that were harmful to them or to the other part of the conversation, you know, that you participated your equal share, but not too much or not too little.
These are types of things which are not, you can go home and study for three hours and know the facts.
That's completely different than, I don't know how you want to
what phrase you want to say.
I would say it's more a spiritual kind of thing, where a human dynamic.
So in your Donrack, they would address both of these questions.
They would first address how well you prepare for the class.
You know, if you're calling to do math propositions, you could never do any of them.
Well, they're not going to like that very much.
But even if you could do them all, but you were totally rude to people in class, or you weren't considerate, or you weren't helpful, they'll tell you that.
So it's a part of that, isn't it?
I mean, education,
What we hear is not just about facts, not just about knowledge,
the old style, the way players are out of it.
If you're an educated person, you should try and become virtuous.
You know, whether we actually achieve that is a totally different question, but at least it's the standard that's set up.
I'm sorry, Ben, tell me about your own aspirations.
I'm interested in business.
I will definitely go into graduate school.
There are different programs.
There's one, there are a lot of joint programs
between divinity schools and physical schools, and then there are actual physics-ethics programs, but most of those are abroad.
I'm looking at a few right now.
Any downside to this place One of the
for me one of the downsides was there's not as good of a community feeling here as my high school in my high school there was an art show everybody would go not because they were great art connoisseurs but just because they were supporting their friends same with sports theater um i
I mean, other people might feel more of a community than I do, but there was a meeting recently, and we had discussions about why we don't have as much of a community as we'd like to, and how we could improve it.
I think that's even more true in Santa Fe than it is here.
It's a lack of a kind of cohesive, not necessarily intellectual community,
I don't know, a cultural extracurricular community.
I disagree with that completely.
I think there is a real community here and that the aspects of it are interwoven, the intellectual part, the artistic, the extracurricular.
I have friends who participate in lots of different things, and they're my friends as well.
We can talk about ideas, or we can talk about things that are going on, or we can do sports together.
maybe uh sean's response well i don't know i mean we have different we obviously have different opinions um of being a senior here i've you know i've developed some really close friendships and i think that um that everyone seems to me that everyone participates in the community including the tutors and the students and that um
That's been one of the best things about St.
John's for me is that it is a community, that there are only 400 and some students and we all know each other.
If we don't know each other's names, we know each other's what we all look like.
We know when there's someone on campus that doesn't quite, we wonder who they are.
And I guess I feel like that's what helped me to feel.
It contributes to learning.
I mean, it means learning at all times and not just in the classroom.
Well, let me give you an example.
Like last night we had this singing group, the Madrigal Singers, and we've been rehearsing all semester for the performance.
Only about 30 or 40 people came.
Whereas my high school, a concert like that would have brought at least 80 or 90% of the school.
You'd think that at least 100 people would show up for a musical event like that.
From my point of view, I don't want to say it's because people don't care.
I agree with Christine that there's a lot of close friendships here and a lot of people participating in different activities.
It's just that the program is so demanding upon people's time.
that it's hard to take time out and say, go watch a basketball game or watch a concert, because you have to prepare this big neutral population and read these 50 pages of con.
And there's so much time that that's one of the things.
But again, this is like, you know, it's good that you have a balanced perspective on this issue, because obviously, anyone who's got a problem with the school,
Harder to say it's a universal problem if you get a lot of students, it might just be someone's perspective.
On a collegiate basis or a club basis?
Yeah, we did this.
Virtually everyone participates at some time or another.
Yeah.
Poquet is great.
Can't you play in the Naval Academy in Poquet?
Yeah.
This Saturday, actually, yeah.
Have you the women participated in that?
There are many women on the team this year, if they can.
But that's good.
Yeah.
I'm trying to think of something back here.
I'm not looking for any gratitude.
No, but... I'm just trying to place this...
I think there's a lot of political apathy here.
I think people don't care about the rest of the world so much, and I think that's the problem.
I think that there is no sense of community.
I disagree with that.
that there is a sense of community, St.
John's community here, but we don't really care so much about Annapolis or Maryland or the United States or the world so much.
We're just isolated.
It's like the ivory tower.
We discuss these great ideas, but we don't put them into... Well, I wouldn't say we don't put them into practice, but we don't see the... We'll read...
Do you think that there is this detachment from the world?
I think that's part of me here.
It's just spare time.
I mean, I don't think that people need me.
You don't see yourself as withdrawing from the real world?
No, we are definitely withdrawn from the real world.
That is so true.
You are.
And you're all saying you are.
I mean, I don't know.
That's a very difficult question because you have to ask yourself.